# React + TypeScript + Vite Progressive Web App

A Progressive Web App or "PWA" is an application developed using web technologies which can not only be accessed as an online web application but can also be installed as a native app on desktops and phones. It utilizes all the new and enhanced web capabilities to access and use device features on which it is installed and can even work offline. It does all of this while being based off of a single codebase!

This repository provides a base template for a PWA in React and vite.

## Setting Up

- Clone the repository

- run `npm i` to install the dependencies

- `npm run dev` to start the application

- `npm run build` to build the application and see if it works as a PWA

  This bundles the app and puts all required files into the `/dist` directory.

- `npm run preview` will make the server use the `/dist` directory to serve a localhost website.

  Tada!!!!

## Customizing the PWA

- A PWA's metadata is managed in a manifest file, in this case, the manifest file exists in the `vite.config.ts` file

- The assets: Vite has an [assets generator](https://github.com/vite-pwa/assets-generator) plugin that you can use to generate the the PWA's assets.

  The assets are generated by running `npm run generate-pwa-assets`. To change the base icon, add your icon in the `public` dir and change the name in the script.

  Vite-PWA [documentation](https://vite-pwa-org.netlify.app/assets-generator/#source-images) recommends using an svg file as the source for your assets, although you can use any image type.

- Finally, some additional metatags are added in the `index.html` file

  ```html
  <head>
    <!-- other tags -->
    <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
    <link
      rel="apple-touch-icon"
      href="/apple-touch-icon-180x180.png"
      sizes="180x180"
    />
    <link rel="mask-icon" href="/mask-icon.svg" color="#FFFFFF" />
    <meta name="theme-color" content="#ffffff" />
  </head>
  ```

- To customize the Install Prompt, work on the `src/install-pwa.tsx` file

#### This will serve as a greate base for your PWA. You can expand the features like offline support by going through the [Vite-PWA Documentation](https://vite-pwa-org.netlify.app/)
